doc/FITS headers for exposures.rst, before:

================================
FITS metadata for LSST Exposures
================================

Note: ExposureInfo and contents such as Calib and VisitInfo can be stored as rows
in a FITS binary catalog, but also as FITS keywords.
The catalog schemas are described in ExposureInfo.cc, Calib.cc and VisitInfo.cc.
The FITS keywords are described here.

**HDU 0**

================  =========  =======  =============================  ===========
Keyword           Format     Units    LSST object and accessor[1]    Description
================  =========  =======  =============================  ===========
DETNAME           str                 Detector.getAmpInfo()          detector name
DETSER            str                 Detector.getAmpInfo()          detector serial number
EXPID             long int            VisitInfo.getExposureId()      Exposure ID.
EXPTIME           float      sec      VisitInfo.getExposureTime()    Exposure duration (shutter open time).
DARKTIME          float      sec      VisitInfo.getDarkTime()        Time from CCD flush to readout, including shutter open time (despite the name).
DATE-AVG          ISO8601             VisitInfo.getDate()            Date at middle of exposure, at boresight. No time zone character allowed.
TIMESYS           str                                                Must exist and must be set to "TAI" if DATE-AVG is present.
TIME-MID          ISO8601             VisitInfo.getDate()            Deprecated; read if DATE-AVG not found, for backwards compatibility.
                                                                     Date at middle of exposure. The time zone character must exist and must be "Z".
                                                                     Note: TIME-MID is always UTC (even if the comment claims it is TAI) and TIMESYS is ignored.
MJD-AVG-UT1       float      MJD      VisitInfo.getUt1()             UT1 date middle of exposure, at boresight
AVG-ERA           float      deg      VisitInfo.getEra()             Earth rotation angle at middle of exposure, at boresight.
BORE-RA           float      deg      VisitInfo.getBoreRaDec()       Position of boresight, ICRS RA.
BORE-DEC          float      deg      VisitInfo.getBoreRaDec()       Position of boresight, ICRS Dec.
BORE-AZ           float      deg      VisitInfo.getBoreAzAlt()       Position of boresight, refracted apparent topocentric Az.
BORE-ALT          float      deg      VisitInfo.getBoreAzAlt()       Position of boresight, refracted apparent topocentric Alt.
BORE-ROTANG       float      deg      VisitInfo.getBoreRotAngle()    Orientation of rotator at boresight.
ROTTYPE           str                 VisitInfo.getRotType()         Type of rotation; one of:
\                                                                    - UNKNOWN
\                                                                    - SKY   Orientation of E,N with respected to detector X,Y;
                                                                       X is flipped, if necessary, to match the handedness of E,N.
\                                                                    - HORIZON orientation of Az/Alt with respect to detector X,Y;
                                                                       X is flipped, if necessary, to match the handedness of Az,Alt.
\                                                                    - MOUNT the position sent to the instrument rotator; the details depend on the  rotator.
OBS-LONG          float      deg      VisitInfo.getObservatory()     Longitude of telescope.
OBS-LAT           float      deg      VisitInfo.getObservatory()     Latitude of telescope (positive eastward).
OBS-ELEV          float      m        VisitInfo.getObservatory()     Geodetic elevation of telescope (meters above reference spheroid).
AIRTEMP           float      C        VisitInfo.getWeather()         Air temperature.
AIRPRESS          float      Pascals  VisitInfo.getWeather()         Air pressure.
HUMIDITY          float      %        VisitInfo.getWeather()         Relative humidity.
FLUXMAG0          float      ADU      Calib.getFluxMag0()            Flux of a zero-magnitude object.
FLUXMAG0ERR       float      ADU      Calib.getFluxMag0Err()         Error in the flux of a zero-magnitude object.
FILTER            str                 Filter.getName()               Name of filter.
AR_HDU            int                                                HDU containing the archive used to store ancillary objects
COADD_INPUTS_ID   int                                                Archive ID for coadd inputs catalogs
AP_CORR_MAP_ID    int                                                Archive ID for aperture correction map
PSF_ID            int                                                Archive ID for the Exposure's main Psf
WCS_ID            int                                                Archive ID for the Exposure's main Wcs
VALID_POLYGON_ID  int                                                Archive ID for the Exposure's valid polygon
================  =========  =======  =============================  ===========

**HDU 1-3**

================  =========  =======  =============================  ===========
Keyword           Format     Units    LSST object and accessor[1]    Description
================  =========  =======  =============================  ===========
LTV1              int                 Exposure.getXY0()              Image origin, X axis = -_x0[2]_.
LTV2              int                 Exposure.getXY0()              Image origin, Y axis = -_y0[2]_.
================  =========  =======  =============================  ===========

**Footnotes**

..  [1] Unless otherwise noted, each object is contained in the ExposureInfo and has a getter.
    Thus to get ``VisitInfo`` use ``exposure.getExposureInfo().getVisitInfo().
    In some cases a direct shortcut is also available, e.g.
    ``exposure.getFilter()`` is a shortcut for ``exposure.getExposureInfo().getFilter()``.

..  [2] If this exposure is a portion of a larger image, _x0 and _y0 indicate the origin
    (the position of the bottom left corner) of the sub-image with respect to the origin of the parent image.
    This is stored in the fits header using the LTV convention used by STScI
    (see \S2.6.2 of HST Data Handbook for STIS, version 5.0
    http://www.stsci.edu/hst/stis/documents/handbooks/currentDHB/ch2_stis_data7.html#429287).
    This is not a fits standard keyword, but is recognised by ds9
    LTV keywords use the opposite convention to the LSST, in that they represent
    the position of the origin of the parent image relative to the origin of the sub-image.

Commit message:

Add boresightRotAngle documentation clarification
Previous documentation was ambiguous as to which direction corresponded
to increasing rotation angle.

doc/FITS headers for exposures.rst, after:

================================
FITS metadata for LSST Exposures
================================

Note: ExposureInfo and contents such as Calib and VisitInfo can be stored as rows
in a FITS binary catalog, but also as FITS keywords.
The catalog schemas are described in ExposureInfo.cc, Calib.cc and VisitInfo.cc.
The FITS keywords are described here.

**HDU 0**

================  =========  =======  =============================  ===========
Keyword           Format     Units    LSST object and accessor[1]    Description
================  =========  =======  =============================  ===========
DETNAME           str                 Detector.getAmpInfo()          detector name
DETSER            str                 Detector.getAmpInfo()          detector serial number
EXPID             long int            VisitInfo.getExposureId()      Exposure ID.
EXPTIME           float      sec      VisitInfo.getExposureTime()    Exposure duration (shutter open time).
DARKTIME          float      sec      VisitInfo.getDarkTime()        Time from CCD flush to readout, including shutter open time (despite the name).
DATE-AVG          ISO8601             VisitInfo.getDate()            Date at middle of exposure, at boresight. No time zone character allowed.
TIMESYS           str                                                Must exist and must be set to "TAI" if DATE-AVG is present.
TIME-MID          ISO8601             VisitInfo.getDate()            Deprecated; read if DATE-AVG not found, for backwards compatibility.
                                                                     Date at middle of exposure. The time zone character must exist and must be "Z".
                                                                     Note: TIME-MID is always UTC (even if the comment claims it is TAI) and TIMESYS is ignored.
MJD-AVG-UT1       float      MJD      VisitInfo.getUt1()             UT1 date middle of exposure, at boresight
AVG-ERA           float      deg      VisitInfo.getEra()             Earth rotation angle at middle of exposure, at boresight.
BORE-RA           float      deg      VisitInfo.getBoreRaDec()       Position of boresight, ICRS RA.
BORE-DEC          float      deg      VisitInfo.getBoreRaDec()       Position of boresight, ICRS Dec.
BORE-AZ           float      deg      VisitInfo.getBoreAzAlt()       Position of boresight, refracted apparent topocentric Az.
BORE-ALT          float      deg      VisitInfo.getBoreAzAlt()       Position of boresight, refracted apparent topocentric Alt.
BORE-ROTANG       float      deg      VisitInfo.getBoreRotAngle()    Orientation of rotator at boresight.
ROTTYPE           str                 VisitInfo.getRotType()         Type of rotation; one of:
\                                                                    - UNKNOWN
\                                                                    - SKY   Position angle of focal plane +Y measured from N through E.
\                                                                    - HORIZON  Position angle of focal plane +Y measured from +Alt through +Az.
\                                                                    - MOUNT the position sent to the instrument rotator; the details depend on the rotator.
OBS-LONG          float      deg      VisitInfo.getObservatory()     Longitude of telescope.
OBS-LAT           float      deg      VisitInfo.getObservatory()     Latitude of telescope (positive eastward).
OBS-ELEV          float      m        VisitInfo.getObservatory()     Geodetic elevation of telescope (meters above reference spheroid).
AIRTEMP           float      C        VisitInfo.getWeather()         Air temperature.
AIRPRESS          float      Pascals  VisitInfo.getWeather()         Air pressure.
HUMIDITY          float      %        VisitInfo.getWeather()         Relative humidity.
FLUXMAG0          float      ADU      Calib.getFluxMag0()            Flux of a zero-magnitude object.
FLUXMAG0ERR       float      ADU      Calib.getFluxMag0Err()         Error in the flux of a zero-magnitude object.
FILTER            str                 Filter.getName()               Name of filter.
AR_HDU            int                                                HDU containing the archive used to store ancillary objects
COADD_INPUTS_ID   int                                                Archive ID for coadd inputs catalogs
AP_CORR_MAP_ID    int                                                Archive ID for aperture correction map
PSF_ID            int                                                Archive ID for the Exposure's main Psf
WCS_ID            int                                                Archive ID for the Exposure's main Wcs
VALID_POLYGON_ID  int                                                Archive ID for the Exposure's valid polygon
================  =========  =======  =============================  ===========

**HDU 1-3**

================  =========  =======  =============================  ===========
Keyword           Format     Units    LSST object and accessor[1]    Description
================  =========  =======  =============================  ===========
LTV1              int                 Exposure.getXY0()              Image origin, X axis = -_x0[2]_.
LTV2              int                 Exposure.getXY0()              Image origin, Y axis = -_y0[2]_.
================  =========  =======  =============================  ===========

**Footnotes**

..  [1] Unless otherwise noted, each object is contained in the ExposureInfo and has a getter.
    Thus to get ``VisitInfo`` use ``exposure.getExposureInfo().getVisitInfo().
    In some cases a direct shortcut is also available, e.g.
    ``exposure.getFilter()`` is a shortcut for ``exposure.getExposureInfo().getFilter()``.

..  [2] If this exposure is a portion of a larger image, _x0 and _y0 indicate the origin
    (the position of the bottom left corner) of the sub-image with respect to the origin of the parent image.
    This is stored in the fits header using the LTV convention used by STScI
    (see \S2.6.2 of HST Data Handbook for STIS, version 5.0
    http://www.stsci.edu/hst/stis/documents/handbooks/currentDHB/ch2_stis_data7.html#429287).
    This is not a fits standard keyword, but is recognised by ds9
    LTV keywords use the opposite convention to the LSST, in that they represent
    the position of the origin of the parent image relative to the origin of the sub-image.
